1. Start your program with 4 producers and 1 consumer. Does the ordering of the output 
change between runs? If yes, briefly explain how the outputs are different.

Yes, the ordering of the output changes between runs. The outputs are different because the threads are running concurrently and the order in which they are executed is not guaranteed.

2. Repeat the experiment (question 1) with a background job running on the machine.
Observe the ordering of the output and briefly report.

The ordering is still non-deterministic. The background job does not affect the ordering of the output.

3. Repeat tasks 1 & 2, this time with 4 producers and 3 consumers. Record your 
observations and provide an explanation about why a multi-threaded program may 
not produce deterministic output even though the inputs remain identical.

I observed that the ordering is still non-deterministic.
A mult-threaded program may not produce deterministic output even though the inputs remain identical because the threads are running concurrently and the order in which they are executed is not guaranteed.


4. Repeat questions 1–3 on the virtual machine created in the first laboratory time. 
Configure the virtual machine to only have one CPU. Briefly describe your output, 
using a similar style as before.


5. Compare and contrast single- vs multi-CPU execution of the bounded buffer problem.

When using a single CPU, the output is still non-deterministic. The difference is that the threads are not running concurrently. The single CPU executes the threads one at a time. When using multiple CPUs, the output is still non-deterministic. The difference is that the threads are running concurrently. The order in which they are executed is not guaranteed.

6. Document any hard problems you faced during the debugging of your multi-threaded 
application. Did the non-deterministic nature of the program make the task of 
debugging your code more difficult?

The hardest problem I had while debugging this program was that a normal trace log becomes difficult with multiple threads. The non-deterministic nature of the program made the task of debugging my code more difficult because the order in which the threads are executed is not guaranteed..
I had to step through the logic of the program in my head and use print statements to figure out what was going on.

7. Briefly state what you learned from this lab as it relates to threading and interprocess 
communication. ie. What is the conclusion of this lab?


I don't want to work with threads.

I also learned that working with interprocess communication is difficult and that it is important to understand how to use it properly. I also learned that the order in which threads are executed is not guaranteed and that this can cause problems when debugging a program.